<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>A Letter to David Grayson, Esq., of Hempfield, U.S.A.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="preface" epub:type="preface z3998:letter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Letter to David Grayson, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, of Hempfield, <abbr class="initialism">U.S.A.</abbr></h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My dear sir,</p>
			<p>Although my name appears on the title page, the real author of this book is Miss Helen McGill (now <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Roger Mifflin), who told me the story with her own inimitable vivacity. And on her behalf I want to send to you these few words of acknowledgment.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Mifflin, I need hardly say, is unskilled in the arts of authorship: this is her first book, and I doubt whether she will ever write another. She hardly realized, I think, how much her story owes to your own delightful writings. There used to be a well-thumbed copy of <em>Adventures in Contentment</em> on her table at the Sabine Farm, and I have seen her pick it up, after a long day in the kitchen, read it with chuckles, and say that the story of you and Harriet reminded her of herself and Andrew. She used to mutter something about “Adventures in Discontentment” and ask why Harriet’s side of the matter was never told? And so when her own adventure came to pass, and she was urged to put it on paper, I think she unconsciously adopted something of the manner and matter that you have made properly yours.</p>
			<p>Surely, sir, you will not disown so innocent a tribute! At any rate, Miss Harriet Grayson, whose excellent qualities we have all so long admired, will find in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Mifflin a kindred spirit.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Mifflin would have said this for herself, with her characteristic definiteness of speech, had she not been out of touch with her publishers and foolscap paper. She and the Professor are on their Parnassus, somewhere on the high roads, happily engrossed in the most godly diversion known to man⁠—selling books. And I venture to think that there are no volumes they take more pleasure in recommending than the wholesome and invigorating books which bear your name.</p>
			<p>Believe me, dear <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Grayson, with warm regards,</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Faithfully yours,</p>
				<p class="signature">Christopher Morley.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
